horizontal line 

Richard Standow
Cloud Solutions Architect 
Thailand until Nov 10th Then back to Portland Oregon USA
Baan Kiang Fah Condo Hua Hin Thailand 
rstandow+resume@gmail.com (1-971-280-1992)
Resume site with more info
https://richard.hitechmadeez.com
SKILLS
ARCHITECTURE AND CONTAINERS
DNS, Firewalls, Load Balancing, IDS HIDS, AP Points, CDN, AWS services S3 EC2 
LANGUAGES, OPERATING SYSTEMS & TOOLS
Python, git, subversion, Linux, Yaml, Markdown, Toml, Mobile Device Mgmt., At Rest Encryption and Full Disk, CRMs IE HubSpot
PLATFORM DEVELOPMENT & ADMINISTRATION
NGINX, MySQL, WordPress, Hugo, LAMP, Windows AD, Windows Server various roles
EXPERIENCE
OFF THE REZ LLC, Portland OR - Owner and Operator
MAY 2018 - PRESENT
I started and ran 4 Print on Demand (POD) stores on Merch by Amazon, Amazon, Esty, and Shopify, but had to scale down operations due to constraints on running it from Thailand and rising cost.
* I integrated Shopify and Etsy with manufacturers and payment processors and oversaw the fulfillment of all orders. I managed Shopify and Etsy accounts, as well as working with manufacturers and payment processors to ensure smooth integration and customer journey. If any issues arise, I am responsible for troubleshooting them.
* Responsible for managing Business to Business account relations and ensuring positive interactions.
* Ensuring that I meet all state, federal, and national compliance, and tax regulations by using GAAP accounting principles and keeping up to date on any new government regulations in the areas where I do business.
Paul Mitchell The School Portland, Portland OR - Dir of Operations
APR 2014 - FEB 2018
I reviewed, analyzed, and evaluated the business procedures in place. Implemented policies and procedures that improved day-to-day operations. Ensured work environments were adequate and safe. Oversaw HR, Accounting, Purchasing, and Sales departments, ensuring each was reaching  set goals by department leads and company leadership.
* Handled day to day operations for Sales, JP Jr (personal accounts), Accounting, Operations, and Admissions departments with 28 employees and 250 students.
* Worked with executives from other companies owned by John Paul DeJoria Sr, such as Patron,Bocci Industries and others, to meet event and admissions goals.
* PMTS was in a monthly net loss when I started, within 120 days was at a positive monthly net income due to my policies and accounting procedures.
* I worked with managers and students to help resolve concerns they may have had.
Motosport.com, Portland OR - Help Desk and Jr Sys Admin
JAN 2012 - MAR 2014
As a junior systems administrator and Help Desk technician, I was responsible for updating hardware and software packages, revising documentation, installing computer and network systems, removing malware and other security threats, monitoring computer system backups, and preventing data corruption. This was all done for a fast-paced large eCommerce company.
* I provided Help Desk support to over 400 employees in a mixed Windows, Linux, and Macintosh environment.
* Maintained documentation on problems and remedial actions taken using the ticket system and internal company wiki.
* Created new Active Directory accounts, and managed windows and Linux file and print servers.
* Served on call for performance of Production Servers and Enterprise level computer systems Windows AD, Debian Servers
US Army – Signal Support System Specialist 
MAR 1996 - July 2011
Honorable discharge (Service-Disabled Veteran) 
EDUCATION
Sirada Learning Centre, Hua Hin Thailand - Thai language school
JAN 2022 - OCT 2022
Achieved intermediate conversation level proficiency 
Portland Community College, Portland OR - Assoc of Applied Science
SEP 2018 - JUN 2020
Only the math class requirement is the only thing left and did not want to take that virtually during covid.